[THEME MUSIC]
>>JENNIFER SCHEINMAN:
I want you all
to imagine a world where
we actually embrace aging,
where we don't fear it.
A world where we add life to our
years as opposed to just years
to our life.
And what if this
fountain of youth
was with us already in the
everyday foods that we eat
and the miraculous way
that our body can transform
these foods into things that
we can use for better health?
Well, I'm here to tell you
that the future of aging
is here already.
Every day scientists
are learning
more and more about how
we age and why we age,
and the things that we
can do to optimize aging.
Now, I have been a
dietician for over 20 years.
I have seen so many
things come and go
in the field of
nutrition and not
much has excited me as what I'm
going to share with you today.
And that's a nutrient
called urolithin A.
And if you've never
heard of it, don't
be worried because about
three years ago I had never
heard about it either.
And I hope by the end of this
talk that I have all of you
guys as excited as I am.
But before I talk
about urolithin A,
I just want to share a
little bit of a story
about how I got to be
up here on this stage
talking about the mitochondria,
talking about cellular energy
and healthy aging.
So I actually always
thought of myself as one
of these lucky people
who have longevity genes.
So my grandmother
lived-- she died just one
week shy of her 101st birthday.
And, true story,
even in hospice,
she was doing needlepoint
with her fingers
and no glasses, which still
is mind blowing to me.
And my other grandparents
all lived really healthfully
into their 90s--
late 80s and early 90s.
So I thought, for sure, I was--
I'm a dietician, I
eat well, I exercise,
I do all of the things, I too
will have a long lifespan.
But it wasn't until
I was in my early 40s
and I got diagnosed
with Lyme disease,
and I had terrible fatigue,
muscle pain, joint pain,
brain fog that kept me
questioning whether I
was going to be able to work.
And I started to get this fear,
what if I live to my 80s or 90s
or 100 but I feel like this?
Because that was not a
life I was particularly
interested in living in.
And that was where I
learned and actually
experienced the difference
between something
called healthspan and
something called lifespan.
So lifespan, that's that
chronological like from the day
that we are born to the
day that we pass away,
that is our lifespan.
But our healthspan is a little
bit more nuanced than that.
That is actually
how many years are
we living free of
disease, full of vibrancy,
and doing the things that we
love to do with the people
that we love.
And that is what I am
really committed to doing
is, how can we help to build
the years that we are living
healthful, vibrant lives.
So I was lucky enough
to find a practitioner
who treated my Lyme,
and that is definitely
a story for another day.
But she reacquainted me
with my mitochondria.
So as a dietician,
I had obviously
been very well trained in
what the mitochondria do.
They take energy-- sorry,
they take the food and the air
that we breathe, and
they turn it into energy.
And I could tell you every
pathway and every nutrient
that went into that miraculous
process, but I was never
really taught very much
about that actual vesica,
the mitochondria itself and what
it does and how important it is
and how easily it
can become damaged.
Like with the everyday
things that we
do, the food that we eat,
all the environmental damage
or diseases like Lyme disease.
So I kind of went
on this journey
to learn all that I could
about the mitochondria,
and it turns out that
they do so much more.
You guys are all probably very
familiar with the mitochondria
as the powerhouse of the
cell, but it turns out
that they do so
much more than that.
Every cell in our body
requires energy to do its job,
whether it is a brain cell,
a muscle cell, a skin cell.
And other than your red blood
cells, every cell in your body
has mitochondria
pumping out energy.
And the cells that
really require
a lot of energy like
your brain and muscles,
they have thousands
of mitochondria
there, doing their job.
And because the mitochondria--
again, if you think of them as
a factory, any other factory
as it gets used, it breaks down.
It starts to become
dysfunctional.
And our bodies are--
they're amazing, right.
So our bodies know
that our mitochondria
are so critical to our
life and to our health
that we have developed this
innate ability to recycle them.
So anybody here who's
very familiar with fasting
and the word
autophagy, right, you
know about that recycling
process already.
But what you might
not know is that there
is a very specific type of
autophagy called mitophagy
that happens on
our mitochondria.
So as we kind of experience
life and as we get older,
we know that
mitochondrial decline is
one of the hallmarks of aging.
And that it's
actually been linked
to almost every
chronic condition
I can think of, from
muscle decline and muscle
wasting called sarcopenia,
neurodegenerative diseases
like Parkinson's and
Alzheimer's, even
reproductive aging.
Do you women know that
the fastest aging organ
in your body is your ovaries?
And they are highly,
highly dependent
on mitochondrial health.
But here's the catch,
that recycling process,
just like all good things,
that also diminishes as we age.
And so I personally want to
do all the things that I can
to help that recycling process.
So let's kind of change the
narrative right now on health
and aging and introduce you
to urolithin A And what it is
and why I am so
excited about it.
So it is a nutrient,
it is a molecule,
and it is the first
and only molecule
that has been proven
to trigger mitophagy.
So we know that
exercise and we know
that fasting and calorie
restriction will also
induce mitophagy, and they need
to be a part of any wellness
and longevity plan.
But I'm hoping to convince you
that urolithin A is something
that should be part
of that plan as well.
So let's talk first
about what it is.
So it is a postbiotic nutrient.
That means we don't get
it directly from food,
we require a healthy gut
microbiome to make it.
And I'm sure most
of you sitting here
are not surprised
that most of us
don't have the right
microbiome to make it.
In fact, only about 30% to
40% of people can make it.
And so as a food
first dietician,
this is one of those
rare places that I think
a supplement has to come in.
Now let's talk about
the clinical studies
because when you're
choosing a supplement,
I think you really have to look
at the quality of research that
is coming out about what you're
about to put in your body.
And this is why I got so excited
about urolithin As because it's
really high quality
research, double
blind, placebo
controlled trials--
those are the gold
standards of trial--
looking, proving
first that urolithin A
when taken as a supplement will
stimulate mitophagy in humans.
And then what does that mean?
What does that translate
to into health?
And the first studies
that were done really
looked at muscle strength.
Which as a woman
who is aging who
works with women
who are aging, I
know we're not
doing all the things
to optimize our muscle health.
And so taking urolithin A can
improve significantly muscle
strength and performance.
And that's in the absence of
changing diet and changing
exercise.
And I'm happy to share all of
this research with you guys
because I think it's
really fascinating.
Next we've also seen that
the topical application
of urolithin A will
also stimulate mitophagy
in the skin cells.
And so when you
have skin cells that
are acting in a
more youthful way,
they are better at
producing collagen,
so we see less fine
lines and wrinkles.
And we also see that
the cells, because they
can act more youthful, are
more resilient to the damage
from the UV light.
And we know that sunlight is
the number one thing that's
causing our skin to age.
So that's not the end of
the story for urolithin A.
If we think back
to how it works,
that stimulating
mitophagy, making our cells
have more mitochondria that
they can use for more energy,
any system in the body
that requires mitochondria
is most likely going
to benefit from that.
And that is where I'm really
confident that the research is
going in the next
couple of years.
There are tons of
preclinical trials
and clinical trials
that are underway,
they're not published
yet, starting
to look at things like
neurodegenerative disease,
immune aging.
Again, as I said, reproductive
health, joint health.
So any of your aging
cells could potentially
benefit from
urolithin A, and I'm
really confident we're going to
have the science to show that
in the next couple of years.
So I'm really glad
that you guys came here
on this journey with me to learn
a little bit about urolithin
A. I encourage you to do
some more research to learn
more about it as well.
And I hope you'll get as excited
about this nutrient as I am.
Thank you.
[AUDIENCE CLAPPING]
[THEME MUSIC]